chore(blog): add singapore summary (#4056)
asyncapi/website: markdown/blog/2025-singapore-conf-summary.md

---
title: "Bringing Asynchronous APIs to the Forefront at APIDays Singapore"

> date: 2025-05-26T06:00:00+01:00

Reviewer: @thulieblack Can you please confirm that?

> date: 2025-05-26T06:00:00+01:00

Reviewer 2: yes this is fine thanks

  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/hugo.webp"
  caption="Hugo presenting Enhancing Kafka Security and Control with Event Gateways."
  className="text-center"
/>

We wrapped up the track with [Ankit Kumar](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ankit28/), Head of Developer & Customer Success at [Aklivity](https://www.linkedin.com/company/aklivity/), speaking on "Streamlining Event-Driven API Design."

Ankit gave us an exciting dive into AsyncAPI v3, our next major milestone. He shared what’s changing, why it matters, and how v3 brings clarity and flexibility to designing and managing complex event-driven APIs.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/ankit.webp"
  caption="Ankit presenting Streamlining Event-Driven API Design."
  className="text-center"
/>

We had:

- Real-world examples of AsyncAPI in action
- Live demos using AsyncAPI Studio and the CLI
- The tooling and ecosystem that surrounds the spec

But more than the slides and demos, it was the questions that told the story:

- "Tell me more about AsyncAPI"
- “How do I introduce AsyncAPI into our hybrid systems?”
- “Can I use this with Kafka and MQTT?”
- “How do we contribute to the spec or tooling?”

> - "How do other AsyncAPI adopters use AsyncAPI?"

Author: "Tell me more about AsyncAPI" is more of a sentence than a question. Hence why it's like that.

---
title: "Bringing Asynchronous APIs to the Forefront at APIDays Singapore"
date: 2025-04-28T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Project Status
  - Conference Update
cover: /img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/singapore-header.webp
authors:
  - name: Atinuke Oluwabamikemi Kayode
    photo: /img/avatars/bami.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/atinuke-oluwabamikemi-kayode-5b838b1b7/
    byline: AsyncAPI Community Marketing Specialist
excerpt: "AsyncAPI kicked off its 2025 conference with a packed track at APIDays Singapore—the first ever AsyncAPI presence at an APIDays event in Asia."
---

## Hello, Asia-Pacific

In the early days of AsyncAPI, it all began with a question:
**“What if developers could build event-driven systems as seamlessly as they build RESTful APIs?”**

What started as a side project has become an industry standard, backed by a global community of engineers, architects, documentarians, and educators from every corner of the world.

Over the years, we’ve shown up: at conferences, in GitHub issues and Slack threads, building not just tools, but a community. And in April 2025, we showed up somewhere new: **Singapore.**

> Thanks to our sponsor and host, [APIDays](https://www.linkedin.com/company/apidays-conferences/)We couldn’t have asked for a better stage to kick off our 2025 conference journey.

Reviewer 2: There's repetition with line 27

> A massive thank you to the [APIDays Singapore team](https://www.apidays.global/singapore/) for partnering with us and offering the AsyncAPI community its very own track.

Reviewer 2: Repetition with line 26

> APIDays continues to be a driving force for API innovation across the globe—and we’re honored to be part of that story.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
APIDays remains a driving force for API innovation worldwide, and we are honored to be part of this story.
```

---
title: "Bringing Asynchronous APIs to the Forefront at APIDays Singapore"
date: 2025-04-28T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Project Status
  - Conference Update
cover: /img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/singapore-header.webp
authors:
  - name: Atinuke Oluwabamikemi Kayode
    photo: /img/avatars/bami.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/atinuke-oluwabamikemi-kayode-5b838b1b7/
    byline: AsyncAPI Community Marketing Specialist
excerpt: "AsyncAPI kicked off its 2025 conference with a packed track at APIDays Singapore—the first ever AsyncAPI presence at an APIDays event in Asia."
---

## Hello, Asia-Pacific

In the early days of AsyncAPI, it all began with a question:
**“What if developers could build event-driven systems as seamlessly as they build RESTful APIs?”**

What started as a side project has become an industry standard, backed by a global community of engineers, architects, documentarians, and educators from every corner of the world.

> Over the years, we’ve shown up: at conferences, in GitHub issues and Slack threads—building not just tools, but a community. And in April 2025, we showed up somewhere new: **Singapore.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Over the years, we’ve shown up: at conferences, in GitHub issues and Slack threads, building not just tools, but a community. And in April 2025, we showed up somewhere new: **Singapore.**
```

> Over the years, we’ve shown up: at conferences, in GitHub issues and Slack threads—building not just tools, but a community. And in April 2025, we showed up somewhere new: **Singapore.**

Reviewer 2: Please add the appreciation section for the sponsor and host here

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/community-marketing-specialist.webp"
  caption="Booth Moment With Our Marketing Specialist."
  className="text-center"

> />

Reviewer 2: alt was added as caption

## First Time in Southeast Asia

> There’s something special about firsts. The first version of a spec. The first contributor. The first working group. The first time you explain what “event-driven” means to someone and see the lightbulb go off. This made us ecstatic to kick off the AsyncAPI conference in Singapore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There’s something special about firsts: the first version of a spec, the first contributor, the first working group, the first time you explain what “event-driven” means to someone and see the lightbulb go off. This made us ecstatic to kick off the AsyncAPI Conference in Singapore.
```

> On April 15–16, the AsyncAPI Conference was part of the [APIDays Singapore](https://www.apidays.global/singapore/) track. The event, themed "Where APIs Meet AI: Building Tomorrow's Intelligent Ecosystems," providing an excellent platform to introduce AsyncAPI to the vibrant Asia-Pacific developer community.​

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On April 15–16, the AsyncAPI Conference was part of the [APIDays Singapore](https://www.apidays.global/singapore/) track. The event, themed "Where APIs Meet AI: Building Tomorrow's Intelligent Ecosystems," providing an excellent platform to introduce AsyncAPI to the vibrant Asia-Pacific community.​
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/asyncapi-x-community.webp"
  caption="Ankit Interacting With The Audience at The Booth."
  className="text-center"
/>

> Our dedicated AsyncAPI track was met with overwhelming interest. Sessions were filled to capacity, with attendees eager to explore the nuances of asynchronous APIs and event-driven architectures. The enthusiasm underscored the growing relevance of AsyncAPI in modern API development. And that mattered to us—not just because it showed interest, but because it proved that the problems we’re solving resonate globally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI track had an overwhelming interest. Sessions were filled with attendees eager to explore the nuances of asynchronous APIs and event-driven architectures. The enthusiasm underscored the growing relevance of AsyncAPI in modern API development. And that mattered to us because it showed interest and proved that the problems we’re solving resonate globally.
```

> ## What We Shared, And What We Learned

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What We Shared And What We Learned
```

> We opened our track with a talk titled “Multi-Protocol Async APIs: Designing a Unified Interface for EDA” by [Naresh Jain](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nareshjain/) Founder & CEO at [Specmatic](https://www.linkedin.com/company/specmatic/). Naresh opened the track by exploring the complexities of event-driven systems built on multiple protocols. He shared a design-first approach to unify these interfaces, allowing teams to tame the chaos and design with confidence early in the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We opened our track with a talk titled “Multi-Protocol Async APIs: Designing a Unified Interface for EDA” by [Naresh Jain](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nareshjain/), Founder & CEO at [Specmatic](https://www.linkedin.com/company/specmatic/). Naresh opened the track by exploring the complexities of event-driven systems built on multiple protocols. He shared a design-first approach to unify these interfaces, allowing teams to tame the chaos and design with confidence early in the project.
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/naresh.webp"
  caption="Naresh presenting Multi-Protocol Async APIs."
  className="text-center"
/>

Next was [Tamimi Ahmad](https://www.linkedin.com/in/atamimi1/), Senior Developer Advocate at [Solace](https://www.linkedin.com/company/solacedotcom/) presenting "The Untapped Potentials of AsyncAPI Studio"

Tamimi showcased AsyncAPI Studio’s newest capabilities—making async design more accessible, visual, and powerful than ever. His live walkthrough had folks taking notes and asking how they could integrate the Studio into their team workflows.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/tamimi.webp"
  caption="Tamimi presenting the Untapped Potentials of AsyncAPI Studio."
  className="text-center"
/>

> It was followed by [Hugo Guerrero](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hugoguerrero/), Head of Technical Marketing at [Kong](https://www.linkedin.com/company/konghq/) speaking on "Enhancing Kafka Security and Control with Event Gateways"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Hugo Guerrero](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hugoguerrero/), Head of Technical Marketing at [Kong](https://www.linkedin.com/company/konghq/), spoke on "Enhancing Kafka Security and Control with Event Gateways."
```

> Hugo brought his deep expertise in Kafka to the table, explaining how event gateways provide much-needed visibility, governance, and access control in Kafka-based environments. Security in EDA isn’t optional—and this talk proved why.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hugo brought his deep expertise in Kafka to the table, explaining how event gateways provide much-needed visibility, governance, and access control in Kafka-based environments. Security in EDA isn’t optional, and this talk proved why.
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/hugo.webp"
  caption="Hugo presenting Enhancing Kafka Security and Control with Event Gateways."
  className="text-center"
/>

> We wrapped up the track with [Ankit Kumar](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ankit28/), Head of Developer & Customer Success at [Aklivity](https://www.linkedin.com/company/aklivity/) speaking on "Streamlining Event-Driven API Design"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We wrapped up the track with [Ankit Kumar](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ankit28/), Head of Developer & Customer Success at [Aklivity](https://www.linkedin.com/company/aklivity/), speaking on "Streamlining Event-Driven API Design."
```

Ankit gave us an exciting dive into AsyncAPI v3, our next major milestone. He shared what’s changing, why it matters, and how v3 brings clarity and flexibility to designing and managing complex event-driven APIs.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/ankit.webp"
  caption="Ankit presenting Streamlining Event-Driven API Design."
  className="text-center"
/>

We had:

- Real-world examples of AsyncAPI in action

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- Live demos using AsyncAPI Studio and the CLI

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- The tooling and ecosystem that surrounds the spec

But more than the slides and demos, it was the questions that told the story:

- "Tell me more about AsyncAPI"
- “How do I introduce AsyncAPI into our hybrid systems?”
- “Can I use this with Kafka and MQTT?”
- “How do we contribute to the spec or tooling?”
- "How do other AsyncAPI adopters use AsyncAPI?"

> We heard curiosity, but also readiness, this wasn’t just a learning moment; for many, it was a turning point.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what you mean here. "We heard curiosity"

Rewrite for better clarity

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/singapore-conference.webp"

>   caption="AsyncAPI Track in motion."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  caption="AsyncAPI track in motion."
```

  className="text-center"
/>

By the end of the conference, we had:

- Welcomed over 20 new faces to our Slack and GitHub communities, though we also noticed some hesitation to join the Slack community.

- Sparked contributor interest in tooling, docs, and protocol support

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/community-and-singapore.webp"
  caption="Community Interaction at the Singapore Conference."
  className="text-center"
/>

> ## Huge Thanks to Our Host: [APIDays](https://www.linkedin.com/company/apidays-conferences/)

Reviewer 2: Move this section above at line 24

> ## Huge Thanks to Our Host: [APIDays](https://www.linkedin.com/company/apidays-conferences/)

Reviewer 2: Don't add links to headings, it won't render properly

We couldn’t have asked for a better stage to kick off our 2025 conference journey.

A massive thank you to the [APIDays Singapore team](https://www.apidays.global/singapore/) for partnering with us and offering the AsyncAPI community its very own track.

APIDays continues to be a driving force for API innovation across the globe—and we’re honored to be part of that story.

## What This Means for Us And What’s Next?

> This event was a reminder: AsyncAPI is no longer just an open source project, it’s a global movement. Being in Singapore meant expanding our reach, connecting with passionate developers in new markets, and hearing firsthand how our tools and standards can solve real world challenges.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This event was a reminder: AsyncAPI is no longer just an open source project; it’s a global movement. Being in Singapore meant expanding our reach, connecting with new markets, and hearing firsthand how our tools and standards can solve real-world challenges.
```

> It also sets the tone for the rest of 2025. With conferences coming up in Munich, Lagos, London, Bengaluru, online, and Paris, this was our first step in a year of global community building.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also sets the tone for the rest of 2025. With conferences scheduled for Munich, Lagos, London, Bengaluru, online, and Paris, this marked our first step in a year of global community building.
```

---
title: "Bringing Asynchronous APIs to the Forefront at APIDays Singapore"
date: 2025-04-28T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Project Status
  - Conference Update
cover: /img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/singapore-header.webp
authors:
  - name: Atinuke Oluwabamikemi Kayode
    photo: /img/avatars/bami.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/atinuke-oluwabamikemi-kayode-5b838b1b7/
    byline: AsyncAPI Community Marketing Specialist
excerpt: "AsyncAPI kicked off its 2025 conference with a packed track at APIDays Singapore—the first ever AsyncAPI presence at an APIDays event in Asia."
---

## Hello, Asia-Pacific!

In the early days of AsyncAPI, it all began with a question:

> ***“What if developers could build event-driven systems as seamlessly as they build RESTful APIs?”***

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**“What if developers could build event-driven systems as seamlessly as they build RESTful APIs?”**
```

> What started as a specification to bring clarity and structure to asynchronous communication has grown into something much bigger—a global open-source movement, powered by a passionate community of engineers, architects, documentarians, and educators from every corner of the world.

Reviewer 2: What started as a side project has become an industry standard, backed by a global community. That would be the correct context.

Author: Alright.

> Over the years, we’ve shown up: at conferences, in GitHub issues and Slack threads—building not just tools, but a community. And in April 2025, we showed up somewhere new: **Singapore.**

Reviewer 2: We have been showing up in different locations since 2023; it's just our first time in Singapore.

Author: It's stated that we showed up somewhere new. Not like we have not been showing up. What exactly is the problem here?

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/community-marketing-specialist.webp"
  caption="Booth Moment With Our Marketing Specialist."
  className="text-center"
/>

## Our First Time in Southeast Asia—And It Mattered

> There’s something special about firsts. The first version of a spec. The first contributor. The first working group. The first time you explain what “event-driven” means to someone and see the lightbulb go off. This made us ecstatic to kick off the AsyncAPI conference with Singapore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> On April 15–16, 2025, the AsyncAPI Initiative proudly marked its first appearance at [APIDays Singapore](https://www.apidays.global/singapore/). The event, themed "Where APIs Meet AI: Building Tomorrow's Intelligent Ecosystems," provided an excellent platform to introduce AsyncAPI to the vibrant Asia-Pacific developer community.​

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On April 15–16, the AsyncAPI Conference was part of the [APIDays Singapore](https://www.apidays.global/singapore/) track. The event, themed "Where APIs Meet AI: Building Tomorrow's Intelligent Ecosystems," providing an excellent platform to introduce AsyncAPI to the vibrant Asia-Pacific developer community.​
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/ankit.webp"
  caption="Ankit presenting Streamlining Event-Driven API Design."
  className="text-center"
/>

We had:

- Real-world examples of AsyncAPI in action

- Live demos using AsyncAPI Studio and the CLI

- The tooling and ecosystem that surrounds the spec

But more than the slides and demos, it was the questions that told the story:

- "Tell me more about AsyncAPI"
- “How do I introduce AsyncAPI into our hybrid systems?”
- “Can I use this with Kafka and MQTT?”
- “How do we contribute to the spec or tooling?”
- "How do other AsyncAPI adopters use AsyncAPI?"

We heard curiosity, but also readiness—this wasn’t just a learning moment; for many, it was a turning point.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/singapore-conference.webp"
  caption="AsyncAPI Track in motion."
  className="text-center"
/>

By the end of the conference, we had:

- Welcomed over 20 new faces to our Slack and GitHub communities, though we also noticed some hesitation to join the Slack community.

- Sparked contributor interest in tooling, docs, and protocol support

> ## 💚 A Community-First Future

Reviewer 2: We have always been community first, You might want to use a different term or reconsider this paragraph

A conference designed to bring together developers, architects, technical writers, DevRel folks, and API enthusiasts who are passionate about the future of event-driven APIs.

We would love to have you attend any of these events close to you, but more than that, we would see you submit your proposal to speak. Whether you’re looking to share your story, demo your tools, or connect with the global async ecosystem, this is your chance. Our Call for Papers (CFP) is now open for most events—we’d love to hear from you!

- [Munich 🇩🇪 :July 2–3, 2025.](https://conference.asyncapi.com/venue/Munich)
- [Lagos 🇳🇬  :July 18–19, 2025](https://conference.asyncapi.com/venue/Lagos)
- [London 🇬🇧 :September 22–24, 2025](https://conference.asyncapi.com/venue/London)
- [Bengaluru 🇮🇳 :October 8-9](https://conference.asyncapi.com/venue/Bangalore)
- [Online 🌐 :October 29, 2025](https://conference.asyncapi.com/venue/Online)
- [Paris 🇫🇷 :December 9–11, 2025](https://conference.asyncapi.com/venue/Paris)

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/singapore-conf/asyncapi-folks.webp"
  caption="See You at Our Next Event."
  className="text-center"
/>

> ## Huge Thanks to Our Host: [APIDays](https://www.linkedin.com/company/apidays-conferences/)

Reviewer 2: Move this section to the top

Author: Up to where?
